<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head><meta http-equiv="default-style" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
<title>2025-12</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/stylesheet.css" type="text/css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/page-template.xpgt" type="application/adobe-page-template+xml" />
</head>
<body>
<div class="body">
<span epub:type="pagebreak" id="_202512" title="2025-12"/>
<h1 class="chapter-title"><strong>2025-12</strong></h1>
<span epub:type="pagebreak" id="_king_selby" title="King Selby"/>
<section title="King Selby" epub:type="bodymatter chapter">
<h1 class="chapter-subtitle"><strong>King Selby</strong></h1>
<p class="note-title">2025-12-06 <a href="_202409.xhtml#_como_degustar_cafe_e_vinho">&lt;</a><a href="toc_wine.xhtml">wine</a></p>

<p>Da vinícola mais antiga do Japão em atividade na região tradicional de Osaka, este rótulo King Selby é conhecido pela leveza nos taninos e na acidez, ótimo para acompanhar a culinária local. Para está safra 2019 que demarca a uva Cabernet Sauvignon como carro-chefe eu considero muito mais que leve. Seu perene tom de frutas vermelhas e a cor rubi na taça entregam um toque de vinho europeu em um mundo exótico. Poderia ser qualquer país periférico como Turquia. Acaba sendo uma boa surpresa para quem não esperava muita coisa dos vinhos japoneses. Bom para beber sozinho, mesmo, mas não se apaga acompanhado até de um pouco de carne vermelha ou arroz japonês (outra combinação excelente).</p>
</section>
<span epub:type="pagebreak" id="_mission_of_the_architect" title="Mission of the architect"/>
<section title="Mission of the architect" epub:type="bodymatter chapter">
<h1 class="chapter-subtitle"><strong>Mission of the architect</strong></h1>
<p class="note-title">2025-12-06 <a href="_202510.xhtml#_tips_for_probabilistic_software">&lt;</a><a href="toc_computer.xhtml">computer</a><a href="_202512.xhtml#_what_actually_makes_you_senior">&gt;</a> <a href="_202511.xhtml#_por_que_cada_membro_dispose_existe">&lt;</a><a href="toc_digest.xhtml">digest</a><a href="_202512.xhtml#_what_actually_makes_you_senior">&gt;</a> <a href="_202511.xhtml#_por_que_cada_membro_dispose_existe">&lt;</a><a href="toc_blogging.xhtml">blogging</a><a href="_202512.xhtml#_what_actually_makes_you_senior">&gt;</a></p>

<p>&gt; Mission of the architect: The job of an architect is to teach and keep coherence across the system. Guide decisions, set constraints, and help teams move forward without blocking them.</p>
<p>&gt; Organization before technology: One team, one domain, full ownership.</p>
<p>&gt; Gall’s Law: Start small, grow intentionally.</p>
<p>&gt; Instead of “how long will this take?”, “Can we make this smaller?”.</p>
<p>&gt; The real loop of incremental architectures: Build something small. Ship it. Get feedback. Adjust. Repeat.</p>
<p>&gt; Use patterns them when you have a problem, not before.</p>
<p>&gt; The Strangler Pattern: when you have a big ball of mud. Build a new module inside the existing system. Safe migration strategy without big-bang rewrites.</p>
<p>&gt; Component Architecture: A good component has a few strict qualities: Small classes and single responsibility. High cohesion and a focused interface.Hard boundaries, a single entry point. No spaghetti. Replaceable implementation, so clients do not depend on internals (Liskov matters here).</p>
<p>&gt; Event-Driven Architecture: Everyone listens, no one knows each other, and events go through a broker, not direct calls.</p>
<p>&gt; Domain Driven Design: Ubiquitous language is not a luxury. It reduces confusion and accelerates change.</p>
<p>&gt; When you map events and work, try this mental model:</p>
<p>&gt; Orange stickers: events, written in the past tense.</p>
<p>&gt; Blue stickers: consequences, the actual work to do.</p>
<p>&gt; Yellow stickers: who performs the work, your services.</p>
<p>&gt; Red stickers: questions, gaps in your knowledge.</p>
<p>&gt; Take this list with you:</p>
<p>&gt; Can you make the work smaller?</p>
<p>&gt; Do teams own domains end-to-end?</p>
<p>&gt; Do you apply patterns when they solve real problems, not by default?</p>
<p>&gt; Do components have hard boundaries and respect Liskov?</p>
<p>&gt; V2</p>
<p>&gt; Gall’s Law: Start small, grow intentionally.</p>
<p>&gt; Instead of “how long will this take?”, “Can we make this smaller?”.</p>
<p>&gt; Build something small. Ship it. Get feedback. Adjust. Repeat.</p>
<p>&gt; Use patterns not before you have a problem.</p>
<p>&gt; Build a new module inside the big ball of mud and redirect.</p>
<p>&gt; Good component: small classes, single responsibility, high cohesion, focused interface, hard boundaries, single entry point, replaceable implementation (Liskov).</p>
<p>&gt; Event-Driven Architecture: Everyone listens, no one knows each other. Broker speaks, not direct calls.</p>
<p>&gt; Domain Driven Design: Ubiquitous language educes confusion and accelerates change.</p>
<p>&gt; Map events and work by colour: events (past tense), consequences (actual work), who performs the work (services), questions and gaps.</p>
</section>
<span epub:type="pagebreak" id="_what_actually_makes_you_senior" title="What Actually Makes You Senior"/>
<section title="What Actually Makes You Senior" epub:type="bodymatter chapter">
<h1 class="chapter-subtitle"><strong>What Actually Makes You Senior</strong></h1>
<p class="note-title">2025-12-06 <a href="_202512.xhtml#_mission_of_the_architect">&lt;</a><a href="toc_computer.xhtml">computer</a><a href="_202512.xhtml#_meu_real_trabalho">&gt;</a> <a href="_202511.xhtml#_ser_programador_wanderley_caloni">&lt;</a><a href="toc_quotes.xhtml">quotes</a><a href="_202601.xhtml#_ascendant">&gt;</a> <a href="_202512.xhtml#_mission_of_the_architect">&lt;</a><a href="toc_digest.xhtml">digest</a> <a href="_202512.xhtml#_mission_of_the_architect">&lt;</a><a href="toc_blogging.xhtml">blogging</a><a href="_202601.xhtml#_the_gutbrain_connection_mental_illness_and_disease_psychobiotics_immunology_and_the_theory_of_all_chronic_disease">&gt;</a></p>

<p>&gt; If you can’t reduce ambiguity, all your other skills are just elegant ways of solving the wrong problem.</p>
</section>
<span epub:type="pagebreak" id="_never_let_go_a_philosophy_of_lifting_living_and_learning_john_dan" title="Never Let Go: A Philosophy of Lifting, Living and Learning (John, Dan)"/>
<section title="Never Let Go: A Philosophy of Lifting, Living and Learning (John, Dan)" epub:type="bodymatter chapter">
<h1 class="chapter-subtitle"><strong>Never Let Go: A Philosophy of Lifting, Living and Learning (John, Dan)</strong></h1>
<p class="note-title">2025-12-10 <a href="_202510.xhtml#_framework_design_guidelines_krzysztof_cwalinajeremy_bartonbrad_abrams">&lt;</a><a href="toc_reading.xhtml">reading</a><a href="_202601.xhtml#_better_than_before_gretchen_rubin">&gt;</a> <a href="_202508.xhtml#_solar_biology">&lt;</a><a href="toc_books.xhtml">books</a><a href="_202601.xhtml#_better_than_before_gretchen_rubin">&gt;</a></p>

<p>&gt; Make yourself a slave to good habits.</p>
<p>&gt; Listen, it’s easier to just eat the damn cookie. I know, I’ve been there. Hi, I’m Dan and I’m the guy who knows carbs are bad for me, but I eat them anyway so leave me alone in my corner to sob.</p>
<p>&gt; In the area of training, we all know what the value of a personal trainer actually is: It’s someone making sure you do something in the allotted training time.</p>
<p>&gt; Where else in your life does something become better and better and better every single time? Meals? Sleep? Work? Even sex can have highs and lows.</p>
<p>&gt; Small wonder many of the classic training plans are three days a week with a heavy, a medium, and an easy day.</p>
<p>&gt; Finally, don’t let a great day destroy years of planning and training by thinking this is now the norm. Enjoy the day, but keep a little humility.</p>
<p>&gt; All her friends, as well as the doctor, recommended high-protein diets. Everything I read and everything I heard said not to do this.</p>
<p>&gt; “Tomorrow, I’ll break the diet and quit. Just not tonight.” I woke up, walked, drank my shake, and I was fine. That’s a big one. You have to make deals with yourself all the time.</p>
<p>&gt; One of the best lessons of the V-Diet: Veggies can be made to taste like candy just by not eating whole foods for twenty-eight days.</p>
<p>&gt; Ab work won’t give you a six-pack. It will, however, be the best support work you can do for your entire training regimen.</p>
<p>&gt; can’t get out of bed the</p>
<p>&gt; Seven sets of five max squats followed by jumps seems to burn every fiber of the legs.</p>
<p>&gt; Tabata is the name of a Japanese researcher who discovered an interesting way to increase both anaerobic and aerobic pathways at the same time. It’s one of those strange training programs that seems to fit across disciplines: It’s excellent for bicyclists, speed skaters, Olympic lifters, or the person looking to lose fat quickly.</p>
<p>&gt; What is it? Nothing to it: Take one exercise and perform it in the following manner. 1) For twenty seconds, do as many repetitions as possible. 2) Rest for ten seconds. 3) Repeat seven more times. That’s it! You’re done in four minutes!</p>
<p>&gt; The two best exercise options for the Tabata method are the front squats and the thruster,</p>
<p>&gt; You need to choose an exercise that uses a large number of muscles. I suggest the front squat.</p>
<p>&gt; have a workshop that emphasizes balance. In it, I outline four terms: work, rest, play and pray.</p>
<p>&gt; I have a workshop that emphasizes balance. In it, I outline four terms: work, rest, play and pray.</p>
<p>&gt; The harder you work, the bigger the other three components have to become in proportion to your added level of work.</p>
<p>&gt; Passion is a word that doesn’t mean what you think it means. It means to suffer. Now, that may not be how we use it today, but that’s what the root of the word means, at least in the dictionary. Let’s define it this way: Passion, to suffer for love.</p>
<p>&gt; I think greatness comes to those willing to go past the sweat.</p>
<p>&gt; You have to go past the hurt, too.</p>
<p>&gt; Hurt means you’ve just moved beyond the pain.</p>
<p>&gt; Winners learn to live with hurt.</p>
<p>&gt; Eat protein at every meal. I like the simple rule of at least a fistful. • Water should be your base beverage.</p>
</section>
<span epub:type="pagebreak" id="_camembert_le_rustique" title="Camembert Le Rustique"/>
<section title="Camembert Le Rustique" epub:type="bodymatter chapter">
<h1 class="chapter-subtitle"><strong>Camembert Le Rustique</strong></h1>
<p class="note-title">2025-12-29 <a href="_202411.xhtml#_como_conseguir_cafe_gelado_de_qualidade_na_starbucks">&lt;</a><a href="toc_food.xhtml">food</a> <a href="_202512.xhtml#_recortes_das_ultimas_notas">&lt;</a><a href="toc_journal.xhtml">journal</a><a href="_202601.xhtml#_notas_aleatorias_dos_ultimos_dias">&gt;</a> <a href="_202511.xhtml#_berlim_2026_0409_a_0420">&lt;</a><a href="toc_trips.xhtml">trips</a></p>

<p>O camembert tem uma versão chefão chamada Le Rustique. Quando estava na França comprei um desses no mercado e tive que isolar na varanda com tudo fechado, mas depois de passar uma noite inteira de castigo o cheiro só piorou. Pesquisei durante os dias que ele foi estragando apurando que os franceses preferem ele próximo do vencimento, pois ele fica mais macio por dentro, quase líquido (estilo brie mais passado). Porém, o cheiro, meu senhor. O sabor é OK. Tem uma complexidade interessante. Não deu tempo de comer tudo. No último dia perguntei pra anfitriã de onde estávamos hospedados se seria uma boa ideia pegar o trem com este mendigo em forma de queijo. Ela disse que era melhor deixar lá mesmo na geladeira. Levei apenas um pedaço que conseguiria comer caso desse ruim. Boas lembranças do dia que infectei um AirBnB.</p>
</section>
<span epub:type="pagebreak" id="_recortes_das_ultimas_notas" title="Recortes das últimas notas"/>
<section title="Recortes das últimas notas" epub:type="bodymatter chapter">
<h1 class="chapter-subtitle"><strong>Recortes das últimas notas</strong></h1>
<p class="note-title">2025-12-06 <a href="_202511.xhtml#_plato_pode_melhorar">&lt;</a><a href="toc_journal.xhtml">journal</a><a href="_202512.xhtml#_camembert_le_rustique">&gt;</a> <a href="_202511.xhtml#_ideias_para_o_futuro_sobre_journaling">&lt;</a><a href="toc_private.xhtml">private</a><a href="_202512.xhtml#_meu_real_trabalho">&gt;</a></p>

<p>&gt; O caminho de ter o tempo para escrita, reflexão e meditação é o que resgata no longo prazo o viver para o Agora e a eliminação das ansiedades do cotidiano.</p>
<p>&gt; Não se domina a criança interna, mas entende suas limitações e conviver em paz e juntos pelo objetivo comum.</p>
<p>&gt; Mais uma vez conclui que é a ansiedade do futuro próximo o ponto falho a ser controlado nesses momentos.</p>
<p>&gt; Tivesse focado por mais tempo em uma coisa só talvez eu tivesse driblado o acesso de hoje.</p>
<p>&gt; Não fiz exercícios. Talvez em vez de exercícios a meditação ou uma sessão rápida de awareness desse conta. O ponto é que na hora é difícil mesmo de usar estratégia ou até mesmo tática. Hoje vi o poder do automático em nossas rotinas.</p>
<p>&gt; Talvez seja minha insistência em ter disciplina e foco, o que me afasta dos objetivos por acrasia.</p>
<p>&gt; Nada mentalmente focado tem valor se não for uma atividade intelectual.</p>
<p>&gt; Se prenda no pouco que irá melhorar dia a dia. Construa. Crie. Isso te dará o ânimo que falta quando não há ideias na cabeça.</p>
<p>&gt; Tentar viver pelo futuro breve é a maneira mais fácil de ficar ansioso e não render no presente.</p>
<p>&gt; Meu uso do foco está ainda afiado e não sei ao que atribuir. De qualquer forma, é a falta de ansiedade, de pensar tanto no futuro próximo, de tentar sempre voltar para o presente, que parece a melhor estratégia a longo prazo.</p>
<p>&gt; Mesmo que não sejam rotinas fixas, ter gatilhos para momentos-chave pode ser a solução jornalística que busco nos meus dias, onde executar uma atividade por um tempo, e apenas essa atividade, acaba se tornando o vírus para as próximas atividades.</p>
<p>&gt; A mente não vai saber ler a essência do momento.</p>
<p>&gt; Desista do eu. Vire o que você precisa virar. E depois abandone. Segue o fluxo.</p>
<p>&gt; Você não existe. Adote uma forma a cada momento e se mantenha fiel até o seu fim.</p>
<p>&gt; Hoje descobri que dá pra colocar processos na lista de não suportados e isso ajuda a entender se é algo na BB que está dando errado. Seria bom documentar este walkthrough é como refinar uma investigação para as próximas.</p>
<p>&gt; Feriados costumam ser mais tranquilos.</p>
<p>&gt; Escrever código de teste é muito bom. Torna o trabalho mais leve.</p>
<p>&gt; Não ter pressão no dia a dia também é uma ótima solução para não existir momento de descompressão.</p>
<p>&gt; Os mestres zen usam a palavra satori para descrever um momento de insight, um momento de mente vazia e presença total.</p>
<p>&gt; Habitue-se a monitorar o seu estado mental e emocional através de uma auto-observação. “Estou me sentindo à vontade neste momento?” é uma pergunta que você deve se fazer com frequência.</p>
<p>&gt; Ou pode se questionar: “O que está acontecendo dentro de mim neste exato momento?”</p>
<p>&gt; No Bhagavad Gita, um dos mais antigos e mais belos ensinamentos espirituais que existem, o desapego ao resultado da ação é chamado Karma Yoga. É descrito como o caminho da “ação santificada”.</p>
</section>
<span epub:type="pagebreak" id="_meu_real_trabalho" title="Meu real trabalho"/>
<section title="Meu real trabalho" epub:type="bodymatter chapter">
<h1 class="chapter-subtitle"><strong>Meu real trabalho</strong></h1>
<p class="note-title">2025-12-10 <a href="_202512.xhtml#_what_actually_makes_you_senior">&lt;</a><a href="toc_computer.xhtml">computer</a> <a href="_202512.xhtml#_recortes_das_ultimas_notas">&lt;</a><a href="toc_private.xhtml">private</a><a href="_202512.xhtml#_satori_o_satoshi_espiritual">&gt;</a></p>

<p>Mexer no computador com rapidez e elegância, reproduzindo problemas com precisão cirúrgica. Escrever código de fácil manutenção com cobertura de testes. Documentar e comentar os detalhes do trabalho de maneira fácil de acompanhar o trabalho do dia-a-dia.</p>
<p>Nada disso é o real trabalho, o que me retorna o maior valor do dia. Se for pensar essas tarefas são automáticas. Requerem habilidades, mas são aprendidas com o tempo. Algumas pessoas sem décadas de experiência conseguem fazer, embora em mais tempo. Outras conseguem mais rápido usando outras técnicas.</p>
<p>O real trabalho, o que não dá para reproduzir tão facilmente, pelo menos hoje, é o pensamento livre de dogmas. A imaginação de construir soluções e entender comportamentos para correção. O real trabalho não é o computador que fará através de um usuário. O real valor do real trabalho roda na mente desse usuário. O computador é de fato apenas uma ferramenta.</p>
<p>Então para que preciso perder tanto tempo na frente do computador? Não preciso. Algumas tarefas levam tempo no computador, mas ele continua sendo uma ferramenta de suporte onde sua saída é usada para alimentar a mente com detalhes ainda não descobertos, e a entrada para testar novas hipóteses.</p>
</section>
<span epub:type="pagebreak" id="_satori_o_satoshi_espiritual" title="Satori, o Satoshi espiritual"/>
<section title="Satori, o Satoshi espiritual" epub:type="bodymatter chapter">
<h1 class="chapter-subtitle"><strong>Satori, o Satoshi espiritual</strong></h1>
<p class="note-title">2025-12-29 <a href="toc_notes.xhtml">notes</a><a href="_202601.xhtml#_devaneios_sobre_escrita">&gt;</a> <a href="_202512.xhtml#_meu_real_trabalho">&lt;</a><a href="toc_private.xhtml">private</a><a href="_202601.xhtml#_notas_aleatorias_dos_ultimos_dias">&gt;</a></p>

<p>Havia lido em algum lugar sobre satori, uma palavra para descrever um momento de insight e presença total. Quando vemos a coisa real sem filtro, sem intermediário. Quem tem satori, por exemplo, não se curva a autoridades. “Se em seu caminho encontrar Buda, mata-o.”</p>
<p>Por algum motivo a sonoridade da palavra e seus princípios me levaram a pensar em Satoshi Nakamoto, o criador anônimo do Bitcoin.</p>
<p>O que eu não sabia é que essa relação já tinha sido feita e estudada por muitos, provavelmente tentando extrair a filosofia do criador de um sistema econômico descentralizado.</p>
</section>
</div>
</body>
</html>
