<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head><meta http-equiv="default-style" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
<title>2025-06</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/stylesheet.css" type="text/css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/page-template.xpgt" type="application/adobe-page-template+xml" />
</head>
<body>
<div class="body">
<span epub:type="pagebreak" id="_202506" title="2025-06"/>
<h1 class="chapter-title"><strong>2025-06</strong></h1>
<span epub:type="pagebreak" id="_journalistic_philosophy" title="Journalistic Philosophy"/>
<section title="Journalistic Philosophy" epub:type="bodymatter chapter">
<h1 class="chapter-subtitle"><strong>Journalistic Philosophy</strong></h1>
<p class="note-title">2025-06-03 <a href="_202505.xhtml#_apanhado_sobre_o_flow_de_cada_dia">&lt;</a><a href="toc_self.xhtml">self</a><a href="_202506.xhtml#_constituicao_fundamental_j_s_mill">&gt;</a> <a href="_202505.xhtml#_apanhado_sobre_o_flow_de_cada_dia">&lt;</a><a href="toc_flow.xhtml">flow</a><a href="_202506.xhtml#_constituicao_fundamental_j_s_mill">&gt;</a></p>

<p>&gt; Journalistic philosophy is the last and most advanced philosophy. In that approach you can rapidly switch between shallow to deep work.</p>
<p>Essa frase é de [Deep Work =&gt; Flow], um artigo de um blogue que explicava a relação entre ambos os livros e que usei como base para a posterior leitura desses livros. Este é segundo o autor o método mais avançado de focar em uma atividade.</p>
<p>Não é para amadores. As distrações do dia a dia aos poucos vão ficando mais tentadoras. A troca de contexto lhe dá um aval inconsciente de que é possível perder tempo com outras coisas sem ter terminado sua sessão de deep.</p>
<p>Por outro lado, depois de um final de semana totalmente focado em ser vagabundo a inércia irá te acompanhar nos próximos dias, e os dias que deveriam ser mais produtivos por conta do descanso extra acabam virando mais dias preguiçosos.</p>
<p>O importante é lembrar que é possível relaxar e ser produtivo ao mesmo tempo. Lembre-se que no flow qualquer atividade pode ser produtiva se imbuída de significado intrínseco, e é isso o que torna a filosofia jornalística eficaz.</p>
<p>As distrações, se concentradas em menos períodos em vez de pulverizadas ao longo do dia, podem dar uma sensação mais palpável de dever cumprido e consequentemente de descanso merecido até a próxima tarefa.</p>
<p>Por outro lado, se o dever se encontrar na segunda metade do dia é imperativo adotar a filosofia jornalística.</p>
</section>
<span epub:type="pagebreak" id="_constituicao_fundamental_j_s_mill" title="Constituição fundamental (J. S. Mill)"/>
<section title="Constituição fundamental (J. S. Mill)" epub:type="bodymatter chapter">
<h1 class="chapter-subtitle"><strong>Constituição fundamental (J. S. Mill)</strong></h1>
<p class="note-title">2025-06-16 <a href="_202506.xhtml#_journalistic_philosophy">&lt;</a><a href="toc_self.xhtml">self</a><a href="_202506.xhtml#_cabala_a_energia_da_transformacao_roshveder_eliel">&gt;</a> <a href="_202506.xhtml#_journalistic_philosophy">&lt;</a><a href="toc_flow.xhtml">flow</a><a href="_202509.xhtml#_padroes_de_pensamento">&gt;</a> <a href="_202505.xhtml#_o_segundo_cerebro">&lt;</a><a href="toc_quotes.xhtml">quotes</a><a href="_202506.xhtml#_the_world_you_desired">&gt;</a></p>

<p>&gt; Nenhum grande aperfeiçoamento da humanidade como um todo é possível até que uma grande mudança tenha lugar na constituição fundamental de seu modo de pensar.</p>
<p>&gt; J. S. Mill</p>
</section>
<span epub:type="pagebreak" id="_cabala_a_energia_da_transformacao_roshveder_eliel" title="Cabala: A Energia da Transformação (Roshveder, Eliel)"/>
<section title="Cabala: A Energia da Transformação (Roshveder, Eliel)" epub:type="bodymatter chapter">
<h1 class="chapter-subtitle"><strong>Cabala: A Energia da Transformação (Roshveder, Eliel)</strong></h1>
<p class="note-title">2025-06-21 <a href="_202506.xhtml#_constituicao_fundamental_j_s_mill">&lt;</a><a href="toc_self.xhtml">self</a><a href="_202506.xhtml#_holistic_tarot_benebell_wen">&gt;</a> <a href="_202506.xhtml#_a_origem_das_especies_darwin_charles">&lt;</a><a href="toc_books.xhtml">books</a><a href="_202506.xhtml#_holistic_tarot_benebell_wen">&gt;</a> <a href="_202506.xhtml#_a_origem_das_especies_darwin_charles">&lt;</a><a href="toc_reading.xhtml">reading</a><a href="_202506.xhtml#_holistic_tarot_benebell_wen">&gt;</a></p>

<p>&gt; Meditar na natureza é tocar o divino.</p>
<p>&gt; O Criador então criou a humanidade no cosmos, não só aqui, mas em vários mundos, para os humanos ajudarem os anjos a combater o caos e a criar a Ordem rumo ao vaso restaurado, a montagem do quebra cabeça.</p>
<p>&gt; A meditação Devekut une o homem ao Eterno levando ele a fazer parte desta luta contra o caos para o refinamento do UNIVERSO, este processo é chamado de Tikun Olam, quando meditamos ficamos no centro deste processo contribuindo para a redenção de toda a humanidade.</p>
<p>&gt; A Cabala é um conhecimento profundo que mostra a ligação entre o homem e as dimensões paralelas, sejam elas da luz ou do caos.</p>
<p>&gt; A Yetzer Hara é a inclinação para o pecado que existe em cada ser humano por causa do pecado original. Nós sempre buscamos o caminho mais fácil, benefícios para nós e para nossa família mesmo que tenhamos que pisar, que esmagar nosso semelhante.</p>
<p>&gt; Infelizmente é mais fácil sofrer por vários anos do que colocar em prática estas duas leis divinas, louvar no sofrimento e orar pelo próximo mesmo estando nós em situação crítica.</p>
<p>&gt; Entrar em palácios celestiais descobrindo segredos do universo é a principal meta da meditação. Depois vem a meta secundária que é o sucesso no mundo físico pela reprogramação mental.</p>
<p>&gt; Meditação Transcendental  Esta prática é muito antiga até que em 1957 o Yogi indiano Maharishi codificou ela. Ela tem vários passos, mas em resumo ela procura fazer você transcender o tempo e o espaço se imaginando em outro lugar. A mente irá acreditar realmente que está neste outro lugar e com isso os milagres vão acontecer, isso é transcendência.</p>
<p>&gt; O Sistema Endócrino é o conjunto de glândulas responsáveis pela produção dos hormônios que são lançados no sangue e percorrem o corpo até chegar aos órgãos-alvo sobre os quais atuam. Junto com o sistema nervoso, o sistema endócrino coordena todas as funções do nosso corpo. O hipotálamo (1) grupo de células nervosas localizadas na base do encéfalo faz a integração entre esses dois sistemas.</p>
<p>&gt; O sistema endócrino ou das glândulas atua em todo o corpo humano regulando nossa vida, através da meditação do verbo divino a pessoa lança vibração neste sistema a partir da tireóide e se espalhando por todo o sistema endócrino criando um domínio da alma ativada na meditação sobre o corpo físico.</p>
<p>&gt; Zmam Olamot.  Esta expressão significa usar o corpo em adoração ao Pai para entrar nos mundos paralelos. Olamot são mundos paralelos ao físico, os jardins secretos da Cabala.</p>
</section>
<span epub:type="pagebreak" id="_a_hora_da_estrela_clarice_lispector_1977" title="A Hora da Estrela (Clarice Lispector, 1977)"/>
<section title="A Hora da Estrela (Clarice Lispector, 1977)" epub:type="bodymatter chapter">
<h1 class="chapter-subtitle"><strong>A Hora da Estrela (Clarice Lispector, 1977)</strong></h1>
<p class="note-title">2025-06-21 <a href="_202404.xhtml#_git_fiction">&lt;</a><a href="toc_fiction.xhtml">fiction</a><a href="_202507.xhtml#_a_maquina_do_tempo_h_g_wells_1895">&gt;</a> <a href="_202504.xhtml#_the_willpower_instinct_kelly_mcgonigal_2013">&lt;</a><a href="toc_books.xhtml">books</a><a href="_202506.xhtml#_a_origem_das_especies_darwin_charles">&gt;</a></p>

<p>Macabéa não consegue evitar ser feliz. Porque se contenta com pouco. Sua classe social não lhe impede de existir, embora na visão de seu narrador isto seja um quase nada, indescritível porque até palavras faltam.</p>
<p>Já os textos que falam sobre A Hora da Estrela, estes sim: destilam a pura inveja de classe. É a maldição dos artistas em ter sua obra analisada sob o viés político. É o pai da Maravilhosa Miss Maisel, crente de que se trata de uma metáfora profunda quando o próprio autor revela ser apenas uma peça sobre um cachorro. É a máxima já dita: o mais alto grau do tédio em uma obra não pode impedir o fascínio da crítica.</p>
<p>Não que o livro de Lispector seja chato. Muito pelo contrário. É talvez uma das poucas obras “recentes” que tenta algo de novo e se mantém como literatura clássica sob o véu do modernismo. O último gesto de liberdade de uma autora não tão afeita a colocar seus pés no chão. Lispector só consegue respirar com a cabeça nas alturas. E ela flutua, leve, e sem pretensão alguma constrói uma das fábulas mais poderosas sobre a vida mais seca do que os personagens de Graciliano Ramos, porque eles não migraram para a cidade grande.</p>
<p>Macabéa era minha musa na adolescência. Eu adorava essa história porque eu também me sentia quase ninguém. E é uma sensação muito boa. Te livra das angústias do narrador deste livro, que hoje tomaria antidepressivos ou remédio para ansiedade e não conseguiria terminar um parágrafo desta obra.</p>
<p>&gt; Quem vive sabe, mesmo sem saber que sabe. Assim é que os senhores sabem mais do que imaginam e estão fingindo de sonsos.</p>
<p>&gt; Sim, mas não esquecer que para escrever não importa o quê o meu material básico é a palavra.</p>
<p>&gt; (...) não é preciso acreditar em alguém ou em alguma coisa – basta acreditar. Isso lhe dava às vezes estado de graça. Nunca perdera a fé.</p>
<p>&gt; Por que ela não reage?</p>
<p>&gt; A mulherice só lhe nasceria tarde porque até no capim vagabundo há desejo de sol.</p>
<p>&gt; O céu é para baixo ou para cima? Pensava a nordestina. Deitada, não sabia.</p>
<p>&gt; Porque, por pior que fosse sua situação, não queria ser privada de si, ela queria ser ela mesma.</p>
<p>&gt; Tinha um quarto só para ela. Mal acreditava que usufruía o espaço. E nem uma palavra era ouvida. Então dançou num ato de absoluta coragem, pois a tia não a entenderia.</p>
<p>&gt; E cantada por um homem chamado Caruso que se diz que já morreu. A voz era tão macia que até doía ouvir. A música chamava-se “Una Furtiva Lacrima”.</p>
<p>&gt; Você não vai entender mas eu vou lhe dizer uma coisa: ainda se encontra mulher barata. Você me custou pouco, um cafezinho. Não vou gastar mais nada com você, está bem? Ela pensou: eu não mereço que ele me pague nada porque me mijei.</p>
<p>&gt; Ter matado e roubar faziam com que ele não fosse um simples acontecido qualquer, davam-lhe uma categoria, faziam dele um homem com honra já lavada.</p>
<p>&gt; Glória possuía no sangue um bom vinho português e também era amaneirada no bamboleio do caminhar por causa do sangue africano escondido. Apesar de branca, tinha em si a força da mulatice.</p>
</section>
<span epub:type="pagebreak" id="_holistic_tarot_benebell_wen" title="Holistic Tarot (Benebell Wen)"/>
<section title="Holistic Tarot (Benebell Wen)" epub:type="bodymatter chapter">
<h1 class="chapter-subtitle"><strong>Holistic Tarot (Benebell Wen)</strong></h1>
<p class="note-title">2025-06-21 <a href="_202506.xhtml#_cabala_a_energia_da_transformacao_roshveder_eliel">&lt;</a><a href="toc_self.xhtml">self</a><a href="_202507.xhtml#_a_sabedoria_dos_psicopatas_kevin_dutton">&gt;</a> <a href="toc_tarot.xhtml">tarot</a><a href="_202601.xhtml#_ascendant">&gt;</a> <a href="_202506.xhtml#_cabala_a_energia_da_transformacao_roshveder_eliel">&lt;</a><a href="toc_books.xhtml">books</a><a href="_202507.xhtml#_a_maquina_do_tempo_h_g_wells_1895">&gt;</a> <a href="_202506.xhtml#_cabala_a_energia_da_transformacao_roshveder_eliel">&lt;</a><a href="toc_reading.xhtml">reading</a><a href="_202507.xhtml#_a_sabedoria_dos_psicopatas_kevin_dutton">&gt;</a> <a href="_202408.xhtml#_biblia_sagrada_deuteronomio">&lt;</a><a href="toc_esoteric.xhtml">esoteric</a><a href="_202508.xhtml#_solar_biology">&gt;</a></p>

<p>&gt; Tarot is about the spectrum of human archetypal conditions and personalities, which can be used by the modern day practitioner for psychological projective evaluation. Irrespective of one’s faith, yoga helps with personal fitness and tarot helps with decision-making.</p>
<p>&gt; The unconscious of another individual, and every unconscious of every individual is interconnected to form a singular plane called the collective unconscious. Tarot analytics can extrapolate what is otherwise latent in the unconscious archives of our mind and raise our truths to the surface of our consciousness.</p>
<p>&gt; The “subconscious” refers to unintentional cognition and action, though still manifested in the physical reality. Cultural knowledge, evolutionary influences, norms, and values that are affecting an individual’s behavior and physical reality but that the individual may not be conscious and aware of will also be placed here under the term “subconscious.” The subconscious already knows the effects of the causes we’ve created as the collective unconscious knows why we are going through what we are going through.</p>
<p>&gt; The typical analytical process incorporates rational and emotional intelligence. By learning and applying tarot, one can add a third dimension: that of spiritual intelligence. It cannot tell you anything you don’t know already. It tells you exactly what you know, but have not yet permitted your conscious mind to confront.</p>
<p>&gt; Tarot semiotics touches frequently on faith and assumes faith to be an integral part of an individual’s ontology. Don’t use the tarot only because you want to know what will happen next or you might lose sight of what is happening now. The Seeker is soliciting help in navigating the chaos of modernity.</p>
<p>&gt; Several theories compete in explaining the reasons why Tarot works. The synchronicity theory endeavors to explain coincidences. Apophenia suggests that it is all in the mind. Patternicity in Finding Meaningful Patterns in Meaningless Noise (Michael Shermer, 2008). The Fallacy of Personal Validation: A Classroom Demonstration of Gullibility (Bertram R. Forer, 1949). Forer contended that no matter how vague or overbroad a personality description is, individuals who are told that such a description pertains to them will, for one essential reason or another, believe it and adjudicate it as highly accurate. Evocative Images: The Thematic Apperception Test and the Art of Projection (Lon and Morris Isaac Stein Geiser, 1999).</p>
<p>&gt; Shining the flashlight and seeing the jagged rocks does not mean we must walk straight onto them. The tarot is also a flashlight that helps to illuminate our subconscious. When a Seeker shuffles the cards, he or she is infusing personal energies into them. A tarot practitioner who is attuned to his or her tarot deck will integrate his or her energies into the cards. Since the gift of tapping into the collective unconscious is a rarity, the majority of practitioners cannot rely on remote tarot readings. It is therefore best to conduct tarot readings in person, with physical interactions among the trinity of practitioner, tarot deck, and Seeker.</p>
<p>&gt; The belief in vital energies stems from the Eastern concept of qi. The concept is similar to chakras. The tarot is also a tool that calculates a most probable future based on the decisions we are making in the present and our current attitudes and outlook. These are inputted into the tarot through personal qi. If either the practitioner or the Seeker has not activated that qi during a tarot reading, then the cards are nothing more than just cards and the readings are the result of apophenia and the Forer Effect.</p>
<p>&gt; Rider-Waite-Smith is said to be rich with Freemason symbolism. Today, tarot is popularly associated with pagan, Wiccan, neo-pagan, and other contemporary alternative faith practices. That may be why there are common associations between alternative religions, magic or magick, and tarot. The tarot deck originally published in 1909 was drawn by Pamela Colman Smith under the direction of famed occultist A. E. Waite. The deck was published by William Rider &amp; Son of London. Also The Hermetic Order of the Golden Dawn has long been the leading school of tarot studies. Refer to Stuart R. Kaplan’s The Encyclopedia of Tarot.</p>
<p>&gt; It is believed that the unconscious is revealed to the conscious through signs and symbols. When we use them we begin to attune to the expression of our unconscious. We are able to renounce our preconceived notions that govern the conscious plane of thought and touch upon something closer to our truth.</p>
<p>&gt; Connecting to a tarot deck is about adjusting your frame of mind and preparing yourself for intuitive work. Minor Arcana cards represent facets of the human condition. Whereas the Major Arcana cards represent the inner realm, the Minor Arcana cards represent the outer. Major Arcana cards convey our nature, then the Minor Arcana convey our nurture. One mystical theory to Major Arcana is that the twenty-two cards can be read in their totality to reveal the key to accessing the Akashic Records.</p>
<p>&gt; Red as indicating active energies and the black as passive. Active energy corresponds with the Eastern philosophical concept of yang, which is the dominant, masculine, light, hard, and dry elements of the universe. Passive energy corresponds with the concept of yin, which is the recessive, feminine, shadow, soft, and wet elements of the universe. The suits of Wands and Swords are yang while the suits of Cups and Pentacles are yin.</p>
<p>&gt; The primary exercise of the reflection at the end of the day is to assess how well you interpreted the cards in the morning.</p>
<p>&gt; Before you move on to live people, you should have prepared how you will address the ominous-looking cards, how to assess the overall landscape of a spread, how to lay down a spread without hesitation or second-guessing each card’s meaning, and how to convey truths in phrases that empower, not harm. Only then will the ethical novice move on to live Seekers.</p>
<p>&gt; Stand out more prominently to you during that reading, your intuition can readily guide you to understand the symbol’s application to the Seeker’s issue at hand.</p>
<p>&gt; The author of this book strongly recommends that the serious tarot practitioner acquire the following books for his or her reference library: John Michael Greer, The New Encyclopedia of the Occult (Llewellyn Publications, 2013) and Manly P. Hall, The Secret Teachings of All Ages (Tarcher Books, 2013).</p>
<p>&gt; Traditionally in the early Italian tarot decks, circa 1400s, The Fool was raggedly dressed as a beggar. Other European decks depicted The Fool as a madman. In the 1600s, the French tarot depicted The Fool as a jester, wearing a multicolored fancy shirt. Etteilla’s interpretation of The Fool was that of the alchemist. Christine Payne-Towler, The Underground Stream: Esoteric Tarot Revealed (Oregon: Noreah Press, 1999),</p>
<p>&gt; Attributions associated with Earth will represent the external forces at play in the Seeker’s situation.</p>
<p>&gt; Modern astrology most often corresponds Mercury the planet with the element Earth, while Western alchemy corresponds mercury the metallic element with Air.</p>
<p>&gt; Path is about acting for the greater good, for harnessing the powers of creation—building, expanding, and bringing forth the light. The right-hand path is about acting for the greater good, for harnessing the powers of creation—building, expanding, and bringing forth the light. The left-hand path is the individual quest, the quest of self-fulfillment and personal honor.</p>
<p>&gt; A pool of water is depicted and represents the submergence of or emergence from varying levels of consciousness.</p>
<p>&gt; The Magician is creation in the outer sphere. The High Priestess is creation in the inner sphere, intuition, psyche.</p>
<p>&gt; The Hierophant denotes ecclesiastical authority. The High Priestess suggests an authority of natural, universal, or cosmic law.</p>
<p>&gt; The High Priestess suggests secrets that a person is withholding. The Moon represents secrets of the natural world. The High Priestess represents personal mystery. The Moon represents physical or even physiological mystery.</p>
<p>&gt; The intuitive tarot practitioner will pick up on these nuances and be able to note when a card takes on a different shade of meaning for a particular Seeker at a particular time for a particular question. No single card in tarot means the same thing every time.</p>
<p>&gt; If the first impression of the cards you have drawn is not to your liking and you know you are going to just read twice about it, you will give up immediately on interpreting those cards, draw more cards for a second reading, and continue to do so until you get a set of cards you like. By indulging in that way, you are not mining the unconscious part of your mind for the answers, but rather you are looking for the cards to validate the prejudices in your conscious, which defeats the entire purpose of consulting the tarot.</p>
<p>&gt; The bridge between the conscious and the unconscious is not being formed. You are just grasping at the superficial and not reflecting deeply inside of you for the truth.</p>
<ul><li>Those who are Fire signs are part of the court family in the suit of Wands. Fire personalities tend to be born leaders and hunters. They are the planners, architects, and innovators of society. From frequent tarot practice, one may come to observe that those who identify with the Wands, who are governed by Fire, tend to struggle most with finding balance in their lives, as they are prone to extremes. Their lives tend to be a cycle of self-creation (as they are born innovators) and also self-destruction (as they are the first to tear themselves down).</li>
<li>Those who are Water signs or identify most with the suit of Cups probably suffer from a hero complex. These individuals are greatly concerned with the nurturing of others, with aiding and being of use to their loved ones, and thus have a tendency to be codependent.</li>
<li>Those identifying with the suit of Cups are those who strive to save souls and change the world. They’re spiritual, intuitive, and as a result of their deep connection with the natural environment around them, often experience what feels like divine intervention. There are strong influences from the spiritual (or even supernatural) world in their lives. Since they invest with their heart and their emotions, the predominant mode of economic exchange for Water signs is through relationships.</li>
<li>Courts from the suit of Swords, or Air signs, are born warriors. They are prone to quick, intense bursts of deep focus and then a longer period of lacking focus. They will fight tooth and nail for their independence and often engage in dissent. Those who identify with the suit of Swords are prone to conflict and often find themselves embroiled in adversity with others, often fighting the ideological fight. These individuals contribute to society through their minds and their intellect. They thrive on the exchange of ideas and information.</li>
<li>Signifiers from the suit of Pentacles, the Earth signs, are the most stable and reliable of all signs. They set down roots and opt for the familiar. They are born conservators and yet great trendsetters. They are motivated by changing uncertainties into certainties. They’re resourceful, careful, thorough, and ground those around them. To their loved ones, they are the anchor. Commercial transactions, management, and accounting are best left to the Earth signs.</li>
<li>Never consult the tarot for a question until you have given a good faith effort to answer the question consciously.</li>
<li>Right to left, the piles represent IHVH, the four constants forming the Hebrew tetragrammaton or name of the supreme being, the four corners of the universe, the four quadrants of the human condition, the four cardinal directions, and the four elements, Fire, Water, Air, and Earth respectively.</li>
<li>However, I approach it differently. If the Seeker asked a specific question, then the pile the signifier card is found in indicates the sub-issue that is most relevant to resolving the Seeker’s main issue. Thus, the First Operation is used as a preliminary diagnosis of what aspect of a problem, project, or situation will most affect what happens.</li></ul>
</section>
<span epub:type="pagebreak" id="_a_origem_das_especies_darwin_charles" title="A Origem das Espécies (Darwin, Charles)"/>
<section title="A Origem das Espécies (Darwin, Charles)" epub:type="bodymatter chapter">
<h1 class="chapter-subtitle"><strong>A Origem das Espécies (Darwin, Charles)</strong></h1>
<p class="note-title">2025-06-21 <a href="_202506.xhtml#_a_hora_da_estrela_clarice_lispector_1977">&lt;</a><a href="toc_books.xhtml">books</a><a href="_202506.xhtml#_cabala_a_energia_da_transformacao_roshveder_eliel">&gt;</a> <a href="_202504.xhtml#_the_willpower_instinct_kelly_mcgonigal_2013">&lt;</a><a href="toc_reading.xhtml">reading</a><a href="_202506.xhtml#_cabala_a_energia_da_transformacao_roshveder_eliel">&gt;</a></p>

<p>&gt; “Quanto ao mundo material, podemos pelo menos ir até à conclusão de que os fatos não se produzem em consequência da intervenção isolada do poder divino, manifestando-se em cada caso particular, mas antes pela ação das leis gerais.”</p>
</section>
<span epub:type="pagebreak" id="_the_world_you_desired" title="The world you desired"/>
<section title="The world you desired" epub:type="bodymatter chapter">
<h1 class="chapter-subtitle"><strong>The world you desired</strong></h1>
<p class="note-title">2025-06-21 <a href="_202506.xhtml#_constituicao_fundamental_j_s_mill">&lt;</a><a href="toc_quotes.xhtml">quotes</a><a href="_202508.xhtml#_akrasia">&gt;</a></p>

<p>&gt; Do not let your fire go out, spark by irreplaceable spark, in the hopeless swamps of the approximate, the not-quite, the not-yet, the not-at-all. Do not let the hero in your soul perish, in lonely frustration for the life you deserved, but never have been able to reach. Check your road and the nature of your battle. The world you desired can be won, it exists, it is real, it is possible…. ( Atlas Shrugged, 1957 [1992]: 983).</p>
<p>&gt; from Stanford Encyclopedia of Philosophy</p>
</section>
</div>
</body>
</html>
