<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head><meta http-equiv="default-style" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
<title>2025-02</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/stylesheet.css" type="text/css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/page-template.xpgt" type="application/adobe-page-template+xml" />
</head>
<body>
<div class="body">
<span epub:type="pagebreak" id="_202502" title="2025-02"/>
<h1 class="chapter-title"><strong>2025-02</strong></h1>
<span epub:type="pagebreak" id="_we_are_all_thought" title="We are all thought"/>
<section title="We are all thought" epub:type="bodymatter chapter">
<h1 class="chapter-subtitle"><strong>We are all thought</strong></h1>
<p class="note-title">2025-02-01 <a href="_202501.xhtml#_on_the_same_thing">&lt;</a><a href="toc_quotes.xhtml">quotes</a><a href="_202503.xhtml#_symbolical_presentations_of_universal_ideas">&gt;</a> <a href="_202501.xhtml#_anotacoes_de_a_hacker_manifesto_mckenzie_wark">&lt;</a><a href="toc_philosophy.xhtml">philosophy</a><a href="_202503.xhtml#_symbolical_presentations_of_universal_ideas">&gt;</a></p>

<p>&gt; All that we are is the result of all that we have thought. It is founded on thought. It is based on thought.</p>
<p>&gt; Buddha, The Dhammapada</p>
</section>
<span epub:type="pagebreak" id="_prometheus_rising" title="Prometheus Rising (Robert Anton Wilson, 1983)"/>
<section title="Prometheus Rising (Robert Anton Wilson, 1983)" epub:type="bodymatter chapter">
<h1 class="chapter-subtitle"><strong>Prometheus Rising (Robert Anton Wilson, 1983)</strong></h1>
<p class="note-title">2025-02-01 <a href="_202501.xhtml#_um_quimico_na_cozinha">&lt;</a><a href="toc_books.xhtml">books</a><a href="_202503.xhtml#_se_ligue_em_voce_gasparetto_luiz">&gt;</a> <a href="_202403.xhtml#_sal_gordura_acido_calor_salt_fat_acid_heat_nosrat_samin">&lt;</a><a href="toc_reading.xhtml">reading</a><a href="_202504.xhtml#_in_search_of_the_miraculous_pd_ouspensky_1949">&gt;</a></p>

<p>&gt; Whatever the Thinker thinks, the Prover proves.</p>
<p>Este é um livro que transforma vidas. Ele não é apenas para ser lido, mas vivido. Sua sabedoria está em construção e você pode fazer parte dessa jornada de descoberta humana sobre do que somos feitos e como podemos ser outra coisa. Um esotérico e maravilhoso livro sobre nossa consciência e dos infinitos mapas mentais.</p>
<p>&gt; When we say A is B, we are saying that A is only what it appears within our field of study or our area of specialization. This is saying too much. When we say A can be considered as B, or modeled by B, we are saying exactly as much as we have a right to say, and no more. Whatever you think you should see, you will see — unless it is physically impossible in this universe. All experience is a muddle, until we make a model to explain it.</p>
<p>&gt; The software is more “real” in the sense that you can smash the hardware back to dust and the software still exists, and can “materialize” or “manifest” again in a different computer. Imprints (software frozen into hardware) are the non-negotiable aspects of our individuality. Each successive imprint complicates the software which programs our experience and which we experience as &quot;reality.</p>
<p>&gt; These symbols go back a long way; Cabalists find them in the Old Testament (where, indeed, the lion-angel-bull-eagle appears in Ezekiel). They are found constantly in Catholic art, associated with the four evangelists (Matthew-angel, Mark-lion, Luke-bull, John-eagle) and run all through the design of Tarot card decks, medieval and modern.</p>
<p>&gt; The dysangel, the bad news, created by St. Paul was traditional Sklavmoral — “Slaves, obey your masters,” but nourish your resentment with the firm belief that you are “good,” and they are “evil,” and you will eventually have the pleasure of watching them bum in hell forever. In Nietzsche’s analysis, all Marx added to this was the idea of burning and punishing the Master Class here and now instead of waiting for “God” to attend to the matter post mortem.</p>
<p>&gt; It is interesting, in this connection, that Nietzsche dropped “psychological” language from his books as he went along and replaced it with “physiological” language.</p>
<p>&gt; Nietzsche was on the right track, but lacking neurology he looked for the physical basis of these processes in genetics alone.</p>
<p>&gt; Remember again that all these categories are for convenience and that nature has not employed the sharp boundaries that we use in our models of nature.</p>
<p>&gt; Any system for describing human behavior should be flexible enough to be extended indefinitely, and should also still contain meaning when reduced back to its fundamentals.</p>
<p>&gt; Circles of this sort, called mandalas, are widely used for meditation in the Buddhist tradition. Often they are cornered by four demons who evidently, like the Occidental lion, bull, angel and eagle, represent the extremes to be avoided.</p>
<p>&gt; EXERCIZES 1. Whenever you meet a young male or female, ask yourself consciously, “If it came to hand-to-hand combat, could I beat him/her’?” Then try to determine how much of your behavior is based on unconsciously asking and answering that question via pre-verbal “body language.” 2. Get roaring drunk and pound the table, telling everybody in a loud voice just what dumb assholes they all are.*</p>
<p>&gt; Get a book on meditation, practice for two fifteen-minute sessions every day for a month, and then go see somebody who always manages to upset you or make you defensive. See if they can still press your territorial retreat buttons.</p>
<p>&gt; The third semantic circuit handles artifacts and makes a “map” (reality-tunnel) which can be passed on to others, even across generations.</p>
<p>&gt; Human beings (domesticated primates) are symbol-using creatures; which means, as the pioneer semanticist, Korzybski, noted, that those who rule symbols, rule us.</p>
<p>&gt; In the dialectic between nature and the socially constructed world, the human organism is transformed. In this dialectic man produces reality and thereby produces himself.</p>
<p>&gt; Berger and Luckman, The Social Construction of Reality</p>
<p>&gt; A pattern that is not random is known mathematically as information.</p>
<p>&gt; If you know something already, or can predict it easily on the basis of what you do know, it is not information for you. Conversely, if you don’t know something, or can’t predict it, it is information.</p>
<p>&gt; Gregory Bateson has defined information as “differences that make a difference.”</p>
<p>&gt; A stochastic process is a random series, but it is a special kind of random series. In a stochastic process, some agent or agency is making selections — picking out of the randomness a pattern that is not random.</p>
<p>&gt; Information is also known mathematically as negative entropy or, in a widely used abbreviation, negentropy.</p>
<p>&gt; Without getting embroiled in metaphysics, life (evolution) behaves as if it were always aiming at higher coherence, i.e., higher intelligence.</p>
<p>&gt; Hence, the accelerations noted by Adams and Korzybski are human increments in a process that has been innate in evolution all along. The human increment accelerates faster than pre-human evolution because through the third, semantic circuit and its symbols (words, maps, equations etc.) we are able to pass information (negative entropy: coherence) from generation to generation.</p>
<p>&gt; As Bateson points out, if we accept any ordering process as intelligent, then the biosphere is indeed intelligent; but if we save the word “intelligence” only for those ordering processes that move at the same speed as our brains, then Nature is merely mechanical, not intelligent. To an extra-terrestrial with a different time-sense than ours, this question would not arise at all.)</p>
<p>&gt; This whole book, not just the present chapter, is based on the belief that an overview of evolution shows beyond all doubt that the wealth-producing faculty (the search for higher coherence) is the deciding factor. The illth-producing faculty is an archaic mammalian survival system rapidly becoming obsolete.</p>
<p>&gt; This type of “Western progressivism” (or Utopianism) came out of the mid-East and is the distinct contribution of the Jews, which is why all reactionaries are intuitively anti-Semitic.</p>
<p>&gt; Thomas Jefferson developed his view that “all men are created equal” from the perception of the infinity within each of us, which he learned from the Scottish philosophers, Reid and Hutcheson. (It was also from Hutcheson that Jefferson got his idea of “unalienable rights,” which Congress in the interest of stylistic elegance altered to “inalienable rights.”)</p>
<p>&gt; It is important to realize that chance, genetics and malice (anger) are among the “accidents” that create imprints at the points of vulnerability.</p>
<p>&gt; It is amusing to note that Freud recognized the first circuit as the oral stage, the second as the anal stage and the fourth as the genital stage. He did not notice the third, semantic circuit — perhaps because as an obsessive Rationalist he was so absorbed in verbal and conceptual programs that they were invisible to him, as water may be to fishes. Similarly, Jung described the first circuit as the sensational faculty, the second as the feeling faculty, the third as the rational faculty — and skipped the socio-sexual circuit entirely. (There may be a clue here as to why Jung could not abide Freud’s fourth-circuit emphasis and built a separate, less sexual psychology of his own.) Jung then went on to lump all the higher circuits under the rubric of the faculty of intuition.</p>
<p>&gt; The infant is genetically prepared to learn any language, master any skill, play any sex role; in a very short time, however, he or she becomes mechanically, robotically, fixated to accept, follow and mimic the limited offerings of his social and cultural environment. In this process, each of us pays a heavy price. Survival and status mean forfeiting the infinite possibilities of unconditioned consciousness.</p>
<p>&gt; The domesticated primate, inside the social reality-tunnel, is a trivial fragment of the potentials for experience and intelligence innate in the 110,000,000,000-cell human biocomputer. As Robert A. Heinlein wrote: A human being should be able to change a diaper, plan an invasion, butcher a hog, design a building, conn a ship, write a sonnet, balance accounts, build a wall, set a bone, comfort the dying, take orders, give orders, cooperate, act alone, solve an equation, analyze a new problem, pitch manure, program a computer, cook a tasty meal, fight efficiently, die gallantly. Specialization is for insects.</p>
<p>&gt; GODS AND GODDESSES ARE SEXUAL &amp; GENETIC PROGRAMS EXPRESSED IN PRIMITIVE SYMBOLS</p>
<p>&gt; The chief role of religion has always been reactionary. This is its evolutionary function, in the dialectic of the circuitry of the brain. Circuit III, unchecked, is like a cocaine monologue. You can’t remember anything, because everything is changing too fast.</p>
<p>&gt; These four circuits are coded, with four permutations of each, into the “court cards” of the Tarot deck.</p>
<p>&gt; The clever Cabalists who designed this pictorial key to the four primitive circuits included a clue to higher consciousness. For they teach that each element in traditional alchemy (earth, air, fire, water) corresponds to one of these Tarot suits (discs, swords, wands, cups) and to one of the letters in the Holy Unspeakable Name of God — YHVH.</p>
<p>&gt; The aim of the Cabala is to make “the microcosm mirror the macrocosm”; that is, to make the human being a perfect image of “God.”</p>
<p>&gt; This is the same lesson as taught in the Buddhist mandalas with four demons at the corners and the circle representing awakening in the middle.</p>
<p>&gt; The traditional childrearing methods are quite logical, pragmatic and sound in fulfilling the real purpose of society, which is not to create an ideal person, but to create [CRATE] a semi-robot who mimics the society as closely as possible — both in its rational and its irrational aspects, both as the repository of the wisdom of the past and as the sum total of all the cruelties and stupidities of the past. Very simply, a totally aware, alert, awakened (unbrainwashed) person would not fit very well into any of the standard roles society offers; the damaged, robotized products of traditional child-rearing do fit into those slots.</p>
<p>&gt; That is, there is a neuro-sociological “logic” to the illogical.</p>
<p>&gt; Each of us has a “favorite” circuit — that is, a circuit that has been more heavily imprinted than the others. Miscommunication, misunderstanding and general misjudgment of one another is vastly increased by the fact that few of us know about these levels of circuitry, and we all tend to assume that the person we are interacting with is on the same circuit we are.</p>
<p>&gt; Considering the wide variety of philosophies available to any of us — nudism and Buddhism, scientific materialism and snake worship, Communism and vegetarianism, subjective Idealism and Existentialism, Methodism and Shinto, etc. — the fact that most people remain in the same reality-tunnel as their parents, does indicate that acculturalization is a mind control process. We are all giants, raised by pygmies, who have learned to walk with a perpetual mental crouch. Unleashing our full stature — our total brain power — is what this book is all about.</p>
<p>&gt; In a flash, Ouspensky understood the mechanical nature of ordinary human consciousness. (“I can't get out — my horns won’t fit through the door.”)</p>
<p>&gt; There is no “time” on the bio-survival circuit; reflexes act without emotional ego, rational mind or adult personality participating: “I just found myself doing it.”</p>
<p>&gt; All the martial arts — judo, akido, kung fu, etc. — are reimprinting techniques for the bio-survival circuit.</p>
<p>&gt; “We can do what we want with your body from now on.” First-circuit bio-survival instincts thus become hooked to obeying those who have this awesome power — just as the infant learns to hook its bio-survival circuitry to the parental figures.</p>
<p>&gt; The easiest way to get brainwashed is to be born.</p>
<p>&gt; Since everybody “prefers” one circuit over the others, there are people in each society who are easily recognizable as Narcissists (first-circuit robots), Emotionalists (second-circuit robots). Rationalists (third-circuit robots) and Moralists (fourth-circuit robots).</p>
<p>&gt; Accept this book, if not in whole at least in general outlines. Assume you have been brainwashed. Try to learn as much from every human you meet about their separate reality-tunnel and see how much of it you can use to make your reality-tunnel bigger and more inclusive. In other words, learn to listen.</p>
<p>&gt; James Joyce said he never met a boring human being. Try to explain this. Try to get into the Joycean head space, where everybody is a separate reality-island full of mystery and surprise. In other words, learn to observe.</p>
<p>&gt; Temporary neurosomatic consciousness can be acquired by (a) the yoga practice of pranayama breathing and (b) for those who can handle it, by ingestion of Cannabis drugs, such as hashish and marijuana, which trigger neurotransmitters that activate this circuit.</p>
<p>&gt; Most notably, pranayama creates neurosomatic Turn On: sensory enrichment, sensual bliss, perceptual delight, and a general laid-back Hedonic “high.”</p>
<p>&gt; The neurosomatic circuit is “polymorphous perverse,” in Freud’s unappetizing terminology. This merely means that the nervous system itself, taking over as driver, is now directing the rest of the body.</p>
<p>&gt; “Every act (becomes) an orgasm,” said Aleister Crowley, giving his own Tantric emphasis to the polymorphous nature of this circuit.</p>
<p>&gt; The guru comes into the room and his bio-energy* has such a charge that a cripple jumps up and is “healed”;</p>
<p>&gt; *By which we mean nothing “mystical.” It is now known that many physical energies radiate from the body, and that even chemical effects can be transmitted (experienced as emotional “vibes”) from one person to another, the chemicals acting as stimuli to trigger neurotransmitter actions in the second person.</p>
<p>&gt; In another metaphor, the body became the flexible clay and the awakened (illuminated) brain became the sculptor.</p>
<p>&gt; In general, fourth-circuit problems take the form of guilt; “I cannot do what I am supposed to do.” Third-circuit problems take the form of perplexity; “I cannot understand how I got into this mess, or how to get out of it, or what is expected of me,” etc. Second-circuit problems take the form of bullying or cowardice: “I will force them, or I will surrender and let them force me.” First-circuit problems take the form of body symptoms: “I feel rotten all over” gradually centering in, under enough stress, on one acute disabling symptom.*</p>
<p>&gt; It is the Cartesian mind/body dualism that makes us think of such first-circuit “physical” cures as somehow stranger or more spooky than any rapid improvement on the other circuits.</p>
<p>&gt; The Rationalist is even more alarmed by the results of prolonged fifth-circuit bliss, which includes the ability to heal a wide variety of diseases both in oneself and in others. Even the well documented current research on endorphins — which gives us the beginning of a neuro-chemical explanation of how such healings operate — is regarded with discomfort or hostility by the more robotized Rationalists. It all sounds “metaphysical” and therefore it cannot exist.*</p>
<p>&gt; Acquire my book Sex &amp; Drugs: A Journey Beyond Limits</p>
<p>&gt; Learn how to do pranayama properly, from an expert.</p>
<p>&gt; The “akashic records” of Theosophy, the &quot;phylogenetic unconscious” of Dr. Stanislaus Grof, the “Gaia hypothesis” of biologists Margulis and Lovelock — which holds that the biosphere of this planet is one intelligent organism — are three modern metaphors for this circuit.</p>
<p>&gt; Gurdjieff calls this circuit the True Emotional Center.</p>
</section>
<span epub:type="pagebreak" id="_intruso_garth_davis_2023" title="Intruso (Garth Davis, 2023)"/>
<section title="Intruso (Garth Davis, 2023)" epub:type="bodymatter chapter">
<h1 class="chapter-subtitle"><strong>Intruso (Garth Davis, 2023)</strong></h1>
<p class="note-title">2025-02-10 <a href="_202502.xhtml#_casamentos_cruzados_nicholas_stoller_2025">&lt;</a><a href="toc_cinema.xhtml">cinema</a><a href="_202502.xhtml#_meio_gravida_tyler_spindel_2025">&gt;</a> <a href="_202502.xhtml#_casamentos_cruzados_nicholas_stoller_2025">&lt;</a><a href="toc_movies.xhtml">movies</a><a href="_202502.xhtml#_meio_gravida_tyler_spindel_2025">&gt;</a> <a href="_202502.xhtml#_casamentos_cruzados_nicholas_stoller_2025">&lt;</a><a href="toc_miniviews.xhtml">miniviews</a><a href="_202502.xhtml#_meio_gravida_tyler_spindel_2025">&gt;</a></p>

<p>Assisti por recomendação do meu amigo, então sentia que haveria uma reviravolta. Só que ela não chega e o filme estica e você começa a duvidar sobre o que é o filme. Quando finalmente surge a reviravolta as peças se encaixam em dois relacionamentos que servem de espelhos da alma de cada um, o que é triste e doentio. Melancolia sobre o amor na carona de temas recentes. O nome no Brasil não é muito bom. Chamaria de Amor Rival.</p>
</section>
<span epub:type="pagebreak" id="_meio_gravida_tyler_spindel_2025" title="Meio Grávida (Tyler Spindel, 2025)"/>
<section title="Meio Grávida (Tyler Spindel, 2025)" epub:type="bodymatter chapter">
<h1 class="chapter-subtitle"><strong>Meio Grávida (Tyler Spindel, 2025)</strong></h1>
<p class="note-title">2025-02-10 <a href="_202502.xhtml#_intruso_garth_davis_2023">&lt;</a><a href="toc_cinema.xhtml">cinema</a><a href="_202505.xhtml#_mickey_17">&gt;</a> <a href="_202502.xhtml#_intruso_garth_davis_2023">&lt;</a><a href="toc_movies.xhtml">movies</a><a href="_202505.xhtml#_mickey_17">&gt;</a> <a href="_202502.xhtml#_intruso_garth_davis_2023">&lt;</a><a href="toc_miniviews.xhtml">miniviews</a></p>

<p>Piadas ágeis em formato dinâmico me fizeram relevar a linguagem mais recente do cinema, desse pessoal jovem. É engraçado. Assisti dublado e não me arrependo. Filme para não pensar muito. O jeito que a heroína usa a barriga é visceral.</p>
</section>
<span epub:type="pagebreak" id="_casamentos_cruzados_nicholas_stoller_2025" title="Casamentos Cruzados (Nicholas Stoller, 2025)"/>
<section title="Casamentos Cruzados (Nicholas Stoller, 2025)" epub:type="bodymatter chapter">
<h1 class="chapter-subtitle"><strong>Casamentos Cruzados (Nicholas Stoller, 2025)</strong></h1>
<p class="note-title">2025-02-10 <a href="_202501.xhtml#_grandes_hits_ned_benson_2024">&lt;</a><a href="toc_cinema.xhtml">cinema</a><a href="_202502.xhtml#_intruso_garth_davis_2023">&gt;</a> <a href="_202501.xhtml#_grandes_hits_ned_benson_2024">&lt;</a><a href="toc_movies.xhtml">movies</a><a href="_202502.xhtml#_intruso_garth_davis_2023">&gt;</a> <a href="_202501.xhtml#_grandes_hits_ned_benson_2024">&lt;</a><a href="toc_miniviews.xhtml">miniviews</a><a href="_202502.xhtml#_intruso_garth_davis_2023">&gt;</a></p>

<p>Eu gosto tanto de Will Ferrell quanto de Reese Whiterspoon, mas dessa vez eles estão em um roteiro fraco, infantil. Tenta ser sobre sentimentos maduros, mas acaba sendo só pela carência de cada um em não se encaixar mais no que seria uma família, seja tradicional sulista ou pai viúvo. A química entre os dois nunca funciona.</p>
</section>
</div>
</body>
</html>
